# Curves

This module, named `curves`, provides a set of predefined elliptic curve parameters that are commonly used in cryptographic systems, particularly in the realm of Elliptic Curve Cryptography (ECC). These curves are standardized and have been widely reviewed for their cryptographic strength.

## Table of Curves

The module includes parameters for the following named elliptic curves:

- `secp192k1`
- `secp192r1`
- `secp224k1`
- `secp224r1`
- `secp256k1` (also widely known for its use in Bitcoin's cryptocurrency system)
- `secp256r1`
- `secp384r1`
- `secp521r1`

## Curve Object Properties

Each predefined curve, represented by an `EllipticCurve` object, includes the following properties:

- `p`: The prime number that specifies the finite field over which the elliptic curve is defined.
- `a`: The coefficient 'a' of the elliptic curve equation.
- `b`: The coefficient 'b' of the elliptic curve equation.
- `G`: The base point (also called the generator point) on the elliptic curve. This is a point with coordinates (x, y) that falls on the curve.
- `n`: The order of the base point, which is the number of points in the subgroup generated by the base point.
- `h`: The cofactor, which is the ratio between the number of points on the elliptic curve and the order of the base point.

## Using the get Function

The `get` function is the primary method of retrieving an `EllipticCurve` object from the module:

### Signature:
```python
def get(name: str) -> EllipticCurve:
```

### Parameters:
- `name`: A string representing the standard name of the elliptic curve you want to retrieve. The name should be one of the curves listed in the "Table of Curves" section above.

### Returns:
- `EllipticCurve`: The object that includes all of the aforementioned properties associated with the named curve.

### Raises:
- `KeyError`: This exception is raised if the named curve does not exist within the module's predefined set.

### Examples:

```python
from ecutils.curves import get

# To retrieve parameters for the 'secp256k1' curve
secp256k1_curve = get('secp256k1')

# The following is now possible with the 'secp256k1_curve'
print(secp256k1_curve.p)  # Output: The prime 'p' that defines the finite field
print(secp256k1_curve.G)  # Output: The base point 'G' as a Point object with 'x' and 'y' properties
```

### Notes on Exception Handling:
When using the `get` function, it is recommended to handle potential `KeyError` exceptions to gracefully manage situations where a curve name may be mistyped or not available.

```python
try:
    custom_curve = get('typoCurveName')
except KeyError as e:
    print(e)  # Outputs an appropriate message about the curve name not being found
```

### Other Considerations:

- For security applications, it is essential to use standardized and reviewed curves, to ensure the cryptographic strength and security of the system.
- The curves provided within the `curves` module comply with established standards, making it suitable for cryptographic applications requiring elliptic curve parameters.